So this video is about a bug hunt.
I'm sure you remember this from the last section of the course.
It was really fun.
I enjoyed it so much.
Even though in the beginning of that video I think I said that I don't like to correct other people's
code but I turned out to like it so much that I made another one and then I continued to make these
for each section of the course.
So what do you want to do is pause the video if you haven't already done this, go through all this code.
There are mistakes in each of these cells, in all these cells there are mistakes. Sometimes there is
a coding error.
Sometimes there's a math error.
Sometimes there are latex errors... and your job is to go through and fix all of the mistakes.
All right.
So I'm assuming that by now you've paused the video and gone through all of these and now you're curious
to see what I come up with.
All right so I'm just going to start by running this cell and immediately we get an error it says name
sym is not defined.
So in fact we haven't even yet imported the sympy module, so let's see.
I'm going to say insert cell above.
And that's because in general it's good programming style in Python to put all the module importing
up at the very top of the script. So I'm going to write import sympy as sym, so run this cell and then
I will run this cell... oops and then we get another error.
Math is not defined.
Okay.
We also know how to fix this one.
So from IPython dot display import math and also the display functions.
Aha.
Now we get a longer error.
Let's see, the error message here says math expects text not to e to the new squared divided by Alpha.
Okay.
So here the problem is that we are inputting this sympy object directly into the math function.
But the math function is actually expecting latex code.
So we need to convert this from a sympy expression into latex code.
And that we do with sym dot latex.
So let's see if this works.
All right.
Finally we get a nice looking result: you can see two times e to the mu squared divided by Alpha and
that's exactly what you see here too.
e mu squared divided by Alpha.
It's also interesting as a reminder that if you call your symbolic variables by Greek characters -- the
names of Greek characters --
then when you convert into latex, sympy will automatically convert that into the corresponding Greek
character.
So this is the Greek character mu even though here I wrote the letters m u.
All right so let's see what's going on here.
This kind of initially,
you know if you just sort of blink your eyes and look at this fast this looks like correct latex code
but we get some weird error.
And this I've shown you before that when you're putting latex code into python, you actually need to
use double slashes instead of single slashes. So double slash there double slash there double slash there.
And let's see what this looks like now.
Huh.
This looks much much prettier.
I'm sure you agree.
All right.
Here is the next one.
We set variables A and B to be three and four.
But notice that these are not the number three and the number four this is the string three because
these are encased in single quotes. And then we have a comment that says the answer should be seven and
you might remember there was kind of a similar problem like this in the arithmetic section of this course.
So here because these are two strings, python is actually interpreting this plus sign to mean concatenation.
So that means we're getting the string three four, not the number three plus the number four.
So the easiest way to solve this is to get rid of these quotes here and then we get seven. I guess another
way you could have done it is if you want these to be strings for you know maybe it's important to have
these variables as strings for somehow later on in your code, then you could convert these into numbers
you can convert them into integers using the int function, or you can convert them into floating point
decimals using the float function.
OK.
So let's see what's going on here.
I'm going to run this and the error says it's a syntax error; keyword can't be an expression.
So here the problem comes with the single equals sign.
Remember that in Python, a single equals sign means that you are assigning a value to a variable like
what we're doing here.
Probably what we're looking for is a double equals sign.
But this is also the function eq or equals.
And I've introduced this to you a few videos ago, and what you can do with equals with this eq function
is provide two inputs. The first input is for the left hand side of the equation and the second input
is for the right hand side of this equation.
So now we get a different error, which is that the name X is not defined. So we never actually defined
a variable called X. So let's do that.
So say x equals symbols X OK so now we don't get any errors.
And we just get it this is actually basically like just what I wrote here.
Now what's going on here is that the eq function -- equals function -- is going to want to return true or
false as a boolean.
But in this case it doesn't have enough information.
And that makes sense because we haven't told it what X is equal to.
So it's impossible to say whether four times x equals two unless we tell it exactly what X is.
So for example I could say I'm going to overwrite X now and say X equals one half and then we run it
again and we get true.
I will say x equals one third and we get false.
But if I just leave x as X then that's the best we can do.
Okay.
So we know that it's going to crash for one equals sign.
What's gonna happen if we put in two equals signs? Here we get false because here the eq function
is actually testing for strict equality, so is four x
The same thing is two?
The answer is no: four X is the same thing as four X.
All right.
So the best way to set this up would be to write comma like this or to say minus two.
Now we're only providing one input.
We're moving two from the left from the right hand side of the equation to the right hand side of the
equation and implicitly we're testing an equation that looks like this.
So I moved two from the right hand side to the left hand side, but with a minus sign on it of course.
And now we're testing against zero.
All right.
So let's go down to the next one.
So let's first notice that this comment says part 1 of 2 and Part 2 of 2.
So that probably means that these two are linked together.
So let's run the first one. So it's not really clear that anything has gone wrong here.
This is the caret symbol and this is the double asterisk, and this is the python format for indicating
a power.
So this is X squared, and this caret symbol is solving something called the XOR problem in Python.
And you don't need to worry about that for now but you just need to keep in mind that this is the symbol
used for exponentiation.
All right.
So this doesn't look really pretty.
Now we could do two things to make this look nicer.
One thing we could do is embed this into the math function, but you already know by now that that's not
going to work.
So instead we need to input latex codes.
I'm going to write sym dot latex R.
And now we get a nice looking X squared. But there is another way to get this nice looking X squared
with only using the input directly into the display function.
And that was by activating sym dot init
printing.
with parentheses because I'm calling a function here. And I'm going to run this cell again.
And when this function gets run once -- it only needs to be run once.
That's going to activate this nicer printing and it will again give us this nice looking math expression
here. Now if you were only ever displaying relatively simple expressions like this, then it's probably
easier just to go right for display and then the variable with init printing activated.
The main advantage of using the math function and then latex code is if you want to have longer more
embedded expressions.
Okay.
So I think this is now solved.
In fact I don't even think there's anything particularly wrong with this.
We're probably gonna have to do something here.
So let's see what's going on here.
So here I redefine q and r to be symbolic variables, but then I overwrite Q to be a sympified version
of X carat two.
And here R is going to be a simplified version of X Star Star 2 and then we display them.
So let's see what happens here.
Okay so this is actually pretty interesting. We saw up here that when I defined Q to be X squared or
X caret two, the answer was something that doesn't look like X squared.
But when I used the sympify function and then put X caret two in quotes, then actually Q got interpreted
it got displayed as X squared, and then we can see that when I define x Star Star 2 then sym eq told
me that Q and R are actually the same thing.
So q equals R and that part is true.
So what's happening here is that the caret symbol is used for exponentiation and super-scripting
in latex and the star star is used to indicate powers in Python code and the function sympify is
smart enough to recognize that this is latex code, because it's in quotes and this is Python code because
it has the double asterisk.
Okay, so I actually don't really see any errors in this code either although I think this part is unnecessary.
Okay so let's continue on here.
Here I define x to be a symbolic variable.
I don't think I really need to redefine that because I have already defined it above.
But anyway, and then I create some expression and I don't immediately see what's going wrong here.
So let's just run this and see what happens.
Okay.
So we get this nice equation that displayed, that looks pretty good.
And now we see module sympy has no attribute subs.
So what is going on here?
What's going on here is in this line here and here, what it looks like we're trying to do is run a substitution
of this equation, and what we're substituting is three for X, so this seems like a pretty sensible line.
However, this wasn't exactly the right syntax.
So whoever wrote this line of code had the right idea, but the syntax wasn't exactly right. The proper
syntax is to use subs as a method of the sympy equation.
So this should actually be equation dot subs and then we want to substitute X for three.
And now this works.
So it turns out that for x squared minus five X plus 10.
And then the square root of all of that.
If you set X to be equal to 3 The answer is around five and a half.
All right.
And now we get to the final cell down here and let's see what's wrong with this.
Name Y is not defined... huh...
So initially that seems like it's an incorrect error, like the error is an error because we actually
do define y over here.
However, what you have to be mindful of, is that in Python like an all programming languages, the case
actually matters.
So this is in fact a capital Y.
And here I'm defining a lower case Y.
So notice this is a lower case Y.
This is an upper case y so I'm gonna change this to lower case Y.
Run it again and then we get the nice looking result.
All right.
So that was it for this bug hunt.
I hope you enjoyed it.
I hope you found it a good experience to improve your coding skills and that's the end of this section
of the course on introduction to sympy and latex.
Now there is a lot more to learn about using sympy and a lot more to learn about integrating latex
into python. And throughout the rest of the course you will continue learning more about these two modules.